3.1 Planning and Scheduling (12min)

The Project Schedule
.Show the relationship of the project activities and tasks
.Show the dependencies (which tasks follow other tasks in a logical sequence)

Two Concepts
.Sequential
.Simultaneous
(video 03:12)

Two More concepts
.Critical Path
.Float Time

Critical Path
Generally, but not always, the sequence of schedule activities that determines the
duration of the project. It is the longest path through the project.

Float Time

Total Float Time (Slack Time)
The total amount of time a schedule activity may be delayed from its early start date
without delaying the project finish date or violating a schedule constraint.

Free Float
The total amount of time a schedule activity can be delayed without delaying early
start of any immediately following schedule activities.

What Does a Schedule Look Like?
Gantt Chart
Network Diagram

They both show the same basic information in different ways

Project Diagrams
..Gantt Chart
..Network Diagram
-AOA (Activity On Arrow)
-AON (Activity On Node)
-PERT Chart (an early AON Diagram)

..CPM (Critical Path Method)

Project Diagrams
.Gantt Chart
  .. 1917, Henry Gantt
.Network Diagram
  - AOA (Activity On Arrow)
  -. 1959, DuPont  
  - AON (Activity On Node)
  -. 1960, Navy and Nooze Allen
  - PERT Chart (An early AON Diagram)
.CPM (Critical Path Method)
  . 1959, DuPont
  
The Project Schedule
.Tasks Across a timeline
.Road map
-Project
-Project Manager
-Customers and stakeholders
.Communication tool
.Tracking tool

To track your project you have to know where you should be today
with progress and spending and then you track that against where
you actually are. We have to have a schedule to figure where
we're at with the progress and the project.

--__--__--__

3.2 Constructing a Schedule (12min)

How Do We Construct a Schedule?
1. Move the detailed tasks to the schedule
-they come from the WBS
2. Add the task durations
-put those on the schedule
3. Arrange the tasks into the sequential or simultaneous relationships
-that we think work the best
4. Add the initial start or finish if the overall project
-start in beginning: schedule from beggining on through
-start at the completion: schedule backwards to see when we should start the project
5. Add the early and late start and finish times.
6. Add whatever other information you might want, such as team members'names to task and costs

(video 01:10) Example
The headings for groups of tasks are NOT displayed on the network diagram

Constructing the Schedule
(Not all Project Managers use Network Diagrams. May only use Gantt Charts).
.We will use our "Go To Work" WBS to construct a schedule for this mini project.
.We will start with a Network Diagram (AON format). This is often a good planning tool.
.We can move to a Gantt Chart

This is the Building Block of the Network Diagram
-------------------
A         | D     |
ES | LS | EF | LF |
   |    |    |    |
-------------------
A=Activity
D=Duration
ES=Early Start
LS=Late Start
FF=Early Finish
LF=Late Finish
We need that information and them we can put together a schedule.

(video 04:05) Start adding the other tasks and add the connecting lines that
show which tasks lead to other tasks.
These Connecting lines are called either predecessor lines or dependency lines
They are dependency lines if you follow the arrow to the next task in the sequence
They are called predecessor lines if you follow the arrow backward to the previous
task in the sequence. Use whichever works best for you in a specif situation.

(04:15)Let's Add More Tasks
Remember that these tasks come directly from the WBS. We don't need to make up these
taks in the WBS. The schedule just puts those tasks together in a different way - into
a sequential schedule.

Milestones
.Milestones are zero duration tasks that designate significant events in the project
.That is te case here. We are in the car ready to go to work, but we are not at work yet.
There is still more to do to get to work.
.Yes, being in the car is a significant spot in the project and can be displayed at a milestone.

(video 05:08) Completed AON Network Diagram of "Go to Work"

(video 06:19) Float Time in the Project

(video 07:02) Float Time in the Project 

(video 07:08) "Go to Work" Gantt Chart without Task Group Headings (Summary Tasks)

(video 09:19) Software
.Many good ones out there
.Microsoft Project is becoming a standard
-Everyone seems to have it
-Transportability with other Microsoft programs

Baseline
.The original approves plan(for a project, a work package, or an activity), plus
or minus approved scope changes. Usually used with a modifier (e.g., cost baseline,
schedule baseline, performance measurement baseline). (PMI)
Once we get our schedule laid out, we have a baseline for the project. You don't change
the baseline. The only way to change the baseline is if you go back and redefine the project.
Baseline stays the same and now we use that to judge how we're doing with the rest of the 
project as we moved forward

Human Resource COnstraints
.Adjust the critical path based on tasks aling with resource constraints.
We're going to first lay out our schedule, we're going to determine our critical path
based on task relationships and then we might find that because we can't get some of the
people we need on the specific dates we need them, that changes our schedule. And so now, 
when we're finally done with the critical path, it's built on task relationships and the 
availabillity of people that do the tasks at certain times

(video 10:24) Sometimes Our Schedule Is Longer Than the Amount of Time We Have

Crashing the Project
A specific type of project schedule compression technique...to decrease the total project
schedule duration...Typical approaches...include reducing schedule activity durations and
increasing assignment of resources.
Crashing often increases project costs. (PMI5ed)

Fast Trackin the Project
A specific type of project schedule compression technique that changes network logic to 
overlap phases that would normally be done in sequence...or to perform schedule activities
in parallel.
Fast tracking often increases risks. (PMI5ed)

There's one other way to do this which is reduce the scope of the project.

Two Last Resorts
Reduce the Scope: simply take some deliverables out of the project
Reduce the Quality: provide something even if it is not what was originally specified

Neither of these is preferred, but may be necessary

So, those are our ways to change our project if doesn't fit into the time frame allotted,
crash the project, fast track the project, reduce the scope or as a last resort, reduce
the quality

--__--__--

3.3 Lecture Slides
Planning and Scheduling
https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/basicprojmanage/lecture_slides/Module%203%20Lecture%201%20-%20Planning%20and%20Scheduling.pdf

Constructing a Schedule
https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/basicprojmanage/lecture_slides/Module%203%20Lecture%202%20-%20Constructing%20a%20Schedule.pdf

--__--__--
